# BIOMD0000000493: MODEL1310150000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000493.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000493.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Schittler2010 - Cell fate of progenitor cells, osteoblasts or chondrocytes

Mathematical model describing the mechanism of differentiation of mesenchymal
stem cells to bone (osteoblasts) or cartilage (chondrocytes) cells.

This model is described in the article:

[Cell differentiation modeled via a coupled two-switch regulatory
network.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/21198133)

Schittler D, Hasenauer J, Allg√∂wer F, Waldherr S.

Chaos 2010 Dec; 20(4): 045121

Abstract:

Mesenchymal stem cells can give rise to bone and other tissue cells, but their
differentiation still escapes full control. In this paper we address this
issue by mathematical modeling. We present a model for a genetic switch
determining the cell fate of progenitor cells which can differentiate into
osteoblasts (bone cells) or chondrocytes (cartilage cells). The model consists
of two switch mechanisms and reproduces the experimentally observed three
stable equilibrium states: a progenitor, an osteogenic, and a chondrogenic
state. Conventionally, the loss of an intermediate (progenitor) state and the
entailed attraction to one of two opposite (differentiated) states is modeled
as a result of changing parameters. In our model in contrast, we achieve this
by distributing the differentiation process to two functional switch parts
acting in concert: one triggering differentiation and the other determining
cell fate. Via stability and bifurcation analysis, we investigate the effects
of biochemical stimuli associated with different system inputs. We employ our
model to generate differentiation scenarios on the single cell as well as on
the cell population level. The single cell scenarios allow to reconstruct the
switching upon extrinsic signals, whereas the cell population scenarios
provide a framework to identify the impact of intrinsic properties and the
limiting factors for successful differentiation.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000493](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000493) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


